# reciperater
Will allow users to view and rate other recipes which are sorted by breakfast, lunch, dinner, dessert, and type of cuisine.


Inspiration:
As college students we wanted to have an easy and simple way to add and view recipes by passing the “fluff” you see from bloggers that usually post on their cooking forums. The main objective of the project was to have a clean website for users to quickly and efficiently find recipes. We have a search page that allows users to find anything, and the viewer page easily allows editing for the owner of the recipes. Adding a recipe is as simple as it is shown in the same layout of the final display. With the events of covid-19, there were many who decided to lockdown and work from home or learn from home. As a result, many people were either ordering take-out food or cooking on their own at home. With this new demand we decided that a very helpful web application would help users add convenience to cooking at home. Users can pull up or search for a recipe they are interested in to prepare.

Functionality: We have a preview of recipes with a search bar to look up recipes, upvotes/downvotes for each recipe, comments and replies for each recipe with upvotes/downvotes implemented, adding recipes, and an attempt to get the images of recipes to upload by the user.

Challenges: 
Communication was a bit of an issue during some parts of the project, but overall it turned out okay. We also went through a few prototypes before the final product because there we decided we had to change how to design the webpage to make it more user friendly and fast. Initially we tried to have a minimum viable product developed before we started making adjustments to the design of the app, but we jumped straight into building another version of our product which cut into our project timeline for finishing on time. It also did not help that Austin was in a different time zone which made it difficult to schedule meetings. Lastly, uploading an image proved to be more difficult than we thought it would be. Following the tutorial video were able to implement adding images to a table, but with the feature we wanted to implement like having image previews on the home page and uploading

Accomplishments:
A major accomplishment of this app was stepping out of the comfort zone in trying something new with this project that we did not do in the prior homework assignments. Rather than just creating a web app with multiple forms for adding and editing, and displaying, we kept the overall size of the user experience to be quick and easy by having a search bar to speed up the search recipes, and to have the add and edit implementations to be on the same page. Having the search bar helped the most for the users because it makes it easier to find specific recipes by name or tag rather than just scrolling through their entire page. Implementing a comments and replies section was quite neat as well. We were able to apply the knowledge we gained from past homework assignments to include a like and dislike function.

Lessons learned:
A lesson learned from this project was to maintain more communication throughout the development process so that the work of one member of the group would not interfere or overlap with the other. This saves time and effort from being wasted in the event there are disagreements with how a certain functionality of the app should be implemented, and so everyone knows where each other is within the project. Likewise, the roles assigned to each at the beginning of the project did change as the project progressed, so there was some confusion as to who was responsible for which parts of the project near the end. Trying to work out a schedule between different time zones was difficult for the team, and in the future we believe we should have developed a better project management platform to organize our tasks and objectives to be completed following the timeline we had outlined for our project.

The future of RecipeRater:
The next step for RecipeRater is to develop a user profile where the user can build their profile by inputting their preferences for the types of recipes they desire, so the app can automatically make recommendations on the home page that cater to their needs like cost, time, difficulty, type of cuisine, and liked recipes. In addition we want to improve the functionality of the upload images function so the preview page can better display the different foods and recipes. Most importantly we would like to deploy the app to the google cloud to learn how to use the google cloud platform so we develop some experience with gcs if we eventually need it down the line in the future. Another feature we could try to implement in the future is to allow the user to filter search results from not just the tags or the name, but also by the amount of time for the recipe, the difficulty of the recipe, and the ingredients of the recipe. This will better cater to the user preferences in the future to assist in skill level, time, and dietary requirements.
